README.markdown, before:

has\_calendar
============

has\_calendar is a view helper that creates a calendar using a table. You can
easily add events with any content.

This plugin no longer requires the `cal` command and is therefore useable on
all systems ruby runs on. Furthermore the first-day-of-the-week problem is
gone as the plugin relies on ruby and is inheriting its settings.


Instalation
-----------

1) Install the plugin with `script/plugin install git://github.com/KieranP/has_calendar.git`

Usage
-----

    <%= calendar :year => 2009, :month => 8 %>

or, if you want to register some events:

    <% calendar :year => 2009, :month => 8 do |date| %>
      <% Schedule.all(:conditions => "date LIKE '%#{date}%'").each do |event| %>
        <%= link_to event.title, event_path(event) %>
      <% end %>
    <% end %>

As you can see, this will hit your database up to 31 times (one hit for each
day) if you don't optimize it. Fortunately, you can use the options `:events`:

    <% calendar :events => Schedule.all do |date, events| %>
      <% events.each do |event| %>
        <%= link_to event.title, event_path(event) %>
      <% end %>
    <% end %>

By default, each record will use the `created_at` attribute as date grouping.
You can specify a different attribute with the option `:field`:

    <% calendar :events => Schedule.all, :field => :scheduled_at do |date, events| %>
      <!-- loop through events -->
    <% end %>

By default, has\_calendar will use a three letter representation of the day name
to use on the header of the calendar. You can change it using the :header_format option:

    <%= calendar :header_format => :short_day_name %>
    <%= calendar :header_format => "%A" %>

You can also change the caption provided by has\_calendar (that defaults to the
:default format). Setting it to nil doesn't output a caption:

    <%= calendar :caption_format => :month_year %>
    <%= calendar :caption_format => nil %>

To set formats do something like this:

    Date::DATE_FORMATS[:short_day_name] = '%a' # => (Sun..Sat)

Or on your locale file, if your application is internationalized.

You can set the HTML id:

    <%= calendar :id => 'cal' %>

Formatting the calendar
-----------------------

You can use this CSS to start:

    #calendar {
      border: 1px solid #555 !important;
      padding: 0px;
      border-spacing: 1px;
      margin: 10px 0;
    }

    #calendar td,
    #calendar th {
      color: #ccc;
      font-family: "Lucida Grande",arial,helvetica,sans-serif;
      font-size: 10px;
      padding: 6px;
      width: 50px;
      height: 50px;
    }

    #calendar th {
      border: 1px solid #ccc;
      border-bottom: 1px solid #555;
      border-right: 1px solid #555;
      background: #ccc;
      color: #666;
      text-align: left;
    }

    #calendar td {
      background-color: #F0F0F0;
      border: 1px solid #ddd;
      color: #000;
      vertical-align: text-top;
    }

    #calendar td.events {
      background: #fff;
    }

    #calendar td.today {
      background: #ffc;
      color: #666;
    }

    #calendar td.different_month {
      background: #E0E0E0;
      color: #666;
    }

    #calendar .sunday {
      color: maroon !important;
    }

    #calendar .footer th {
      height: auto;
    }

    #calendar .footer .caption {
      text-align: center;
    }

    #calendar .footer .next_month {
      text-align: right;
    }

TO-DO
-----

- Write some specs as soon as possible!

Contributors
------------

* Carlos Júnior (xjunior) <carlos@milk-it.net>
* Kieran Pilkington (KieranP) <kieran776@gmail.com>

Copyright (c) 2008 Nando Vieira, released under the MIT license

Commit message:

Updating documentation and allowing user date choice to be disabled.

README.markdown, after:

has\_calendar
============

has\_calendar is a view helper that creates a calendar using a table. You can
easily add events with any content.

This plugin no longer requires the `cal` command and is therefore useable on
all systems ruby runs on. Furthermore the first-day-of-the-week problem is
gone as the plugin relies on ruby and is inheriting its settings.


Instalation
-----------

1) Install the plugin with `script/plugin install git://github.com/KieranP/has_calendar.git`

Usage
-----

If you want a very simple calendar, then all you need to do is:

    <%= calendar %>

If you want to display a specific year and month, you can provide them to the options.

    <%= calendar :year => 2009, :month => 8 %>

or, if you want to register some events:

    <% calendar :year => 2009, :month => 8 do |date| %>
      <% Schedule.all(:conditions => "date LIKE '%#{date}%'").each do |event| %>
        <%= link_to event.title, event_path(event) %>
      <% end %>
    <% end %>

As you can see, this will hit your database up to 31 times (one hit for each
day) if you don't optimize it. Fortunately, you can use the options `:events`:

    <% calendar :events => Schedule.all do |date, events| %>
      <% events.each do |event| %>
        <%= link_to event.title, event_path(event) %>
      <% end %>
    <% end %>

By default, each record will use the `created_at` attribute as date grouping.
You can specify a different attribute with the option `:field`:

    <% calendar :events => Schedule.all, :field => :scheduled_at do |date, events| %>
      <!-- loop through events -->
    <% end %>

By default, has\_calendar will use a three letter representation of the day name
to use on the header of the calendar. You can change it using the :header_format option:

    <%= calendar :header_format => :short_day_name %>
    <%= calendar :header_format => "%A" %>

You can also change the caption provided by has\_calendar (that defaults to the
:default format). Setting it to nil doesn't output a caption:

    <%= calendar :caption_format => :month_year %>
    <%= calendar :caption_format => nil %>

To set formats do something like this:

    Date::DATE_FORMATS[:short_day_name] = '%a' # => (Sun..Sat)

Or on your locale file, if your application is internationalized.

You can set the HTML id:

    <%= calendar :id => 'cal' %>

The calendar has built in support for users to go to the previous or next month/year.
If you want to disable this support, you can set allow_user_date_select to false:

    <%= calendar :allow_user_date_select => false %>

Formatting the calendar
-----------------------

You can use this CSS to start:

    #calendar {
      border: 1px solid #555 !important;
      padding: 0px;
      border-spacing: 1px;
      margin: 10px 0;
    }

    #calendar td,
    #calendar th {
      color: #ccc;
      font-family: "Lucida Grande",arial,helvetica,sans-serif;
      font-size: 10px;
      padding: 6px;
      width: 50px;
      height: 50px;
    }

    #calendar th {
      border: 1px solid #ccc;
      border-bottom: 1px solid #555;
      border-right: 1px solid #555;
      background: #ccc;
      color: #666;
      text-align: left;
    }

    #calendar td {
      background-color: #F0F0F0;
      border: 1px solid #ddd;
      color: #000;
      vertical-align: text-top;
    }

    #calendar td.events {
      background: #fff;
    }

    #calendar td.today {
      background: #ffc;
      color: #666;
    }

    #calendar td.different_month {
      background: #E0E0E0;
      color: #666;
    }

    #calendar .sunday {
      color: maroon !important;
    }

    #calendar .footer th {
      height: auto;
    }

    #calendar .footer .caption {
      text-align: center;
    }

    #calendar .footer .next_month {
      text-align: right;
    }

TO-DO
-----

- Write some specs as soon as possible!

Contributors
------------

* Carlos Júnior (xjunior) <carlos@milk-it.net>
* Kieran Pilkington (KieranP) <kieran776@gmail.com>

Copyright (c) 2008 Nando Vieira, released under the MIT license
